---
layout: single
title:  "Cypher"
date:   2019-06-01 16:32:56 -0600
categories: [projects] 
author_profile: true
author: "Shrinath Rao"
permalink: /:categories/:title
---
This is a small class based third person shooter that helped me learn about multiplayer networking via the PhotonPUN2 tool.

Cypher started out as an interesting game mode meant to help me understand and get started on learning things multiplayer related in games. While the former had to get cut due to Cypher being quite an ambitious Capstone project, I think I did learn a lot from making this small prototype.  In its current prototyped state, it is a 2v2 3rd person, class based shooter. The two playable characters are Eaglor- a ranged, squishy sniper type character with very little cqc potential, and Bonaparte- a heavy axe throwing tank with a lot of soaking potential. The classes were meant to encourage the use of communication and strategy in order to work together to eliminate the enemy. To read more about my characters, here's a link to the <a href="https://shrinathrao97.github.io/blog/WIP-4#">WIP</a>

What good is a cool shooter game without good maps? For this game I also dipped into level design a little to find out how to create interesting symmetrical maps. I did some research, found some interesting maps that were symmetrical, but more importantly encouraged interesting encounters, strategy and playstyles. To read more about my research here's a <a href="https://shrinathrao97.github.io/blog/WIP-2">WIP</a> 

After researching, I tried to make a map of my own taking inspiration from every one of the maps I read about and played. I also sent the map to some friends and some professors who taught me more about how to use space better, and helped me see some potential flaws/bugs in the level. Here's a link to the <a href="https://shrinathrao97.github.io/blog/WIP-3">WIP</a>.

Finally, I took this little experiment and presented it on capstone day to friends, family, faculty and the public at capstone day with a small info trailer, here's a <a href="https://youtu.be/05E04-Kdfa0">link!</a>  


