---
layout: single 
title:  "WIP: Cypher Characters"
date:   2019-06-01 16:32:56 -0600
categories: blog
author_profile: true
author: "Shrinath Rao"
permalink: /:categories/:title
---

So kit building, balancing and anything to do with the actual character creation aspect- especially mechanically is something I really enjoy. It's something that I spend a lot of time thinking about because it influences, more than any aspect of a class based system in a game, how the user interacts with his/her world and in our case for a multiplayer game, how the user interacts with another user (be it their teammates or the enemy). As such, this game wasn't necassarily an exploration into interesting kits and designs for characters so I decided to keep these simple.

From an engineering and design aspect- this was a lot of fun because of how I coded each of the abilities. Each ability would sit on a script independently and woud basically access the appropriate animations from the asset resources independently. What this meant is that I could drag and drop abilities (scripts) onto different characters and try them out in conjunction with other abilities and characters to find the kit that I thought fit the characters best. Speaking of characters, all characters are based on a DnD campaign by my friend and fellow designer Hudson Bielstein (). Hudson also helped me visualize my map and helped me fix many sight-lines that could have potentially been game breaking. Without further ado

* Bonaparte: The Tank
	* Most health out of our three characters
	* Meant to be defensively oriented with a guard/shield
		* Hitboxing will have to help that
	* Not really meant to be fast in terms of movement
	* A Ability: Thor/GoW style axe throw and return for damage
	* B Ability: A shield that will increase individual health aiding team fights

* Eaglor: The Magic Archer
	* The sniper like class in our set of three
	* Very powerful sniper hits
	* A light AoE DoT to compensate for lack of CQC or sustained DPS
		* Not meant to be much, but is supposed to be an option for outplay
	* A Ability: Animation locking bow shot that does incredible DPS
	* B Ability: A light AoE DoT

* Kshaya: The Teleporting Rogue
	* Meant to be a fast paced CQC almost melee dagger wielding rogue
	* Lowest health pool- but highest reward
	* Quick in and out means good for scouting the objectives
	* A Ability: Three step dagger combo (slight range to compensate for the lack of a melee lock on)
	* B Ability: A dagger throw and teleport (think blink dagger from ff15)

And there we have it! These are the tentative characters proposed for the game right now.

Thanks for reading,
Kshaya/Shri
