---
layout: single 
title:  "Destiny 2: Season of the Drifter"
date:   2019-03-13 16:32:56 -0600
categories: blog
author_profile: true
author: "Shrinath Rao"
permalink: /:categories/:title
---


Recently, Bungie released its new content for the new seasonal DLC (downloadable content) *“Joker’s Wild,”* and within the first couple of hours it has received multiple mixed reviews. It features a new road map which has more than any other seasonal DLC, but at the same time it features a single track gameplay loop.

Gambit Prime, a new game mode, seems to be the focus of this DLC, and with it a new player versus environment (PvE) game type as well- The Reckoning. Players can play the new game mode to gain “synths” which help the player start “The Reckoning” (a PvE activity almost exactly the Blind Well) which in turn rewards players with Gambit Prime armor. The armor, for the first time since Sparrow Racing League in Destiny 1, provides players with Gambit Prime specific perks. Each tier of The Reckoning provides players with better armor that allows players to unlock more perks on their trees. There are specific armor types with specific unlock able perks the help the player excel at specific things inside Gambit Prime, here they are:

Reaper: Helps players kill enemies
Collector: Collect dropped motes
Invader: Rewards players for invading and eliminating enemy players while invading
Sentry: Rewards players for eliminating blockers sent by the enemy team

In addition to this, today, Bungie released a new quest to get the well renowned “Thorn” exotic hand cannon, and a quest asking players to pledge allegiance to either The Vanguard or The Drifter. This quest has as well been received with mixed feelings. The Thorn quest is not very detailed, involving grinding in both PvE or PvP (player versus player), although the gun is well worth the grind. The allegiance quest itself is very neat (dialogue wise and lore wise, the side you choose doesn’t matter- it’s the same quest), involving the player finding out about the Destiny universe’s dark past and getting a better feel for who the drifter is. 

It feels nice to have a narrative and world building based quest that doesn’t require reading the 30 chapter book that is the *“Book of Sorrows”* to get any understanding of the universe. The moral and ethics seem meaningful at first which is a nice change because of how philosophy and deep, meaningful lore is ingrained into the game. Although, while it does seem great at first, the rewards for the quest are practically worthless. Depending on the side you choose, you will either get:

Praxic order package: 
* Powerful vanguard drop
* Vanguard Tokens
* Enhancement core

Drifter Package:
* One of every Gambit Prime synth
* Powerful Gambit armor drop

While this *is* disappointing, Bungie has stated that this allegiance choice will affect future content. Who knows what they could use this for narratively later on in the game? After all, while the Destiny universe can be appropriately deep with the right amount of research, the games have always had a hard time defining a character, a world and a story
